Anarchist: You are opposed to hierarchy, favoring flat forms of social organization and directly democratic decision-making. You believe power is always corrupting and everyone should have a say in the decisions that affect their lives. According to the primitive and restrictive policies of the Inner system and Jovian Junta, this makes you an irresponsible hoodlum at best and a terrorist at worst. In your opinion, that’s comedy coming from governments that keep their populations in line with economic oppression and threats of violence.
Argonaut: You are part of a scientific techno-progressive movement that seeks to solve transhumanity’s injustices and inequalities with technology. You support universal access to technology and healthcare, open source models of production, morphological freedom, and democratization. You try to avoid factionalism and divisive politics, seeing transhumanity’s splintering as a hindrance to its perpetuation.
Barsoomian: You call the Martian outback and wilds your home. You are a “redneck,” a lower-class Martian from the rural areas that often find themselves in conflict with the policies and goals of the hypercorp domes and Tharsis League.
Belter: Most people see the Belt as a waypoint between the inner and outer system, teeming with pirates and criminals, or a simple resource to be exploited. For you, the Belt is the true melting pot of transhumanity, where you can ﬁnd a sampling of all the major factions and the best and worst of each.
Bioconservative: You think transhumanity is recklessly careening down a dangerous path and putting the entire species at risk. You may have religious objections to resleeving, forking, and uplifts, or you may simply believe technology should be restricted by the authorities for the security of everyone.
Brinker: You or your faction is reluctant to deal with the rest of the transhumanity and the various goings-on in the rest of the system. Your particular grouping may have sought out self-imposed isolation, to pursue their own interests, or they may have been exiled for their unpopular beliefs. Or you may simply be a loner who prefers the vast emptiness of space to socializing with others. You might be a religious cultist, a primitivist, a utopian, or something altogether uninterested in transhumanity.
Criminal: You are involved with the crime-oriented underworld. You may work with one of the Sol system’s major criminal factions—triads, the Night Cartel, the ID Crew, Nine Lives, Pax Familae—or one of the smaller, local operators with a big stake in a specific habitat. You might be a vetted member-for-life, a reluctant recruit, or just a freelancer looking for the next gig.
Europan: As a Europan, you consider your home the most enlightened polity in Jovian space. You value science and a technoprogressive agenda, while opposing the bioconservatism of the Junta and its dominance around Jupiter. The ocean depths are the focal point of your interests and culture.
Exhuman: Humanity is weak, and you intend to elevate your body and mind to a superior state of existence. You embrace new and developing technologies, no matter how dangerous and untested, to perfect your physical form and upgrade your mind. You intend to survive and dominate, no matter the cost.
Extropian: You are an anarchistic supporter of the free market and private property. You oppose government and favor a system where security and legal matters are handled by private competitors. Whether you consider yourself an anarcho-capitalist or a mutualist (a difference only other Extropians can figure out), you occupy a middle-ground between the hypercorps and autonomists, dealing with both and yet trusted by neither.
Hypercorp: You hail from a habitat controlled by the hypercorps. You might be a hypercapitalist entrepeneur, a hedonistic socialite, or a lowly vacworker, but you accept that certain liberties must be sacrificed for security and freedom.
Jovian: Your faction is noted for its authoritarian regime, bioconservative ideologies, and militaristic tendencies. Where you come from, technology is not to be trusted to everyone and humans need to be protected from themselves. To ensure its survival, humanity must be able to defend itself, and unfettered growth must be checked.
Lunar: You hail from Luna, the original off-Earth colony world. Now overpopulated and in decline, Luna is one of the few places where people still cling to old-Earth ethnic and national identities. Your home is also within sight of Earth, a constant reminder that encourages many “Loonies” to be Reclaimers, deploring the hypercorp interdiction and arguing that you have a right to return to Earth, terraform it, and re-establish it as a living homeworld.
Mercurial: Your faction has no interest in co-opting their true natures in order to become more “human.” You might be an AGI that does not necessarily intertwine its destiny with transhumanity, or an uplift that seeks to preserve and promote non-human life (or at least your own species). You might even be an infomorph or posthuman who has strayed so far from transhuman interests and values that you now consider yourself to be forging a unique new path of life.
Orbital: You still call Earth your home, though you never set foot there—you watch it from above, planning one day to return. Orbital society is a mash-up of Earth cultures that cling to their old ways and traditions. Progress isn’t as important to you as remembering where you came from.
Out'ster: You have made your home in the far outer reaches of the solar system, living among others that no longer have interest in transhuman affairs and are methodically sloughing off their old ways. You may be intent on leaving the solar system for good, diving into a new virtual existence, or pursuing some other private or unusual interest far away from others.
Precautionist: You take a stance between the bioconservatives and technoprogressives: technology should be proven safe, before it is widely adopted. You favor restricting access to new technologies, offering incentives for hypercorps to pursue thorough safety tests, and harshly punishing those who recklessly deploy dangerous tech.
Reclaimer: To your point of view, transhumanity is nothing without its homeworld. Reclaiming Earth from the machines isn’t just important for self-identity, it’s proof that transhumanity can overcome its obstacles and claim its place in the universe.
Ringer: You call the rings and moonlets of Saturn your home. Though you enjoy the isolation and quiet when you are out soaring the vacuum, you also consider yourself part of a community of eccentrics, scientists, and other brinkers.
Sapient: You believe that uplifts and AGIs are as much a part of transhumanity as humans, and therefore deserve equal rights and liberties. In the same vein, you uphold that all life has value and that the personhood of all sapient creatures should be recognized.
Scum: This is the future we’ve all been waiting for, and you’re going to enjoy it to the max. A paradigm shift has occurred, and while everyone else is catching up, your faction embraces and revels in it. There is no more want, no more death, no more limits on what you can be. The scum have immersed themselves in a new way of life, changing themselves as they see fit, trying out new experiences, and pushing the boundaries wherever they can ... and frak anyone who can’t deal with that.
Sifter: You are a proud and independent member of Mercury’s nomadic and proletarian mining culture. You prefer to live free of any corporate entanglements, but the harsh realities of survival on Mercury mean you must sometimes deal with your hypercorp neighbors.
Singularity Seeker: Everyone agrees the TITANs were a problem, but to you they were also a harbinger. If transhumanity has any hope of survival, in the universe, it must expand its mental capabilities by several orders of magnitude. You have dedicated yourself to ﬁnding a way to achieve an exponential increase in intelligence and ascending to a new, god-like state of existence—whether you want this just for yourself or for everyone is up to you.
Skimmer: You hail from the brinker culture that thrives in the upper atmosphere of Uranus and Neptune, populated by misﬁts, loners, outcasts, and survivalists. The one thing that binds you together is the struggle for existence in the outer reaches. Gas mining provides a way of life, but the thrill of racing the winds and storms of the ice giants is what makes you feel alive.
Socialite: You are a member of the inner system glitterati, the media-saturated social cliques that set trends, spread memes, and make or break lives with whispers, innuendo, and backroom deals. You are simultaneously an icon and a devout follower. Culture isn’t just your life, it’s your weapon of choice.
Solarian: You have surrendered the stresses and concerns of transhuman affairs and embraced the serene, nomadic, and free-wheeling ways of the pods of surya that swim around the sun.
Titanian: You are a participant in the Titanian Commonwealth’s socialist cyberdemocracy. Unlike other autonomist projects, Titanian joint efforts have assembled some impressive infrastructural projects as approved by the Titanian Plurality and pursued by state-owned microcorps.
Ultimate: Your faction sees the potential in transhumanity’s future and looks back upon the rest of transhumanity as weak and hedonistic. Transhumanity is set to take the next evolutionary step and it’s time for transhumans to be redesigned to the best of our capabilities.
Venusian: You are a supporter of the Morningstar Constellation of Venusian aerostats, resentful of the growing influence of the Planetary Consortium and other entrenched and conservative inner system powers. You see your faction’s ascension as a chance to reform the old guard ways of inner system politics.
