n Aerostat: A habitat designed to float like a balloon in a
planet’s upper atmosphere.
n AF: After the Fall (used for reference dating).
n AGI: Artificial General Intelligence. An AI that has cognitive
faculties comparable to that of a human or higher.
Also known as “strong AI” (differentiating from more
specialized “weak AI”). See also “seed AI.”
n AI: Artificial Intelligence. Generally used to refer to weak
AIs; i.e., AIs that do not encompass (or in some cases, are
completely outside of) the full range of human cognitive
abilities. AIs differ from AGIs in that they are usually
specialized and/or intentionally crippled/limited.
n Anarchist: Someone who believes government is
unnecessary, that power corrupts, and that people should
control their own lives through self-organized individual
and collective action.
n Arachnoid: A spider-like robotic synthmorph.
n Argonauts: A faction of techno-progressive scientists
that promote responsible and ethical use of technology.
n AR: Augmented Reality. Information from the mesh (universal
data network) that is overlaid on your real-world
senses. AR data is usually entoptic (visual), but can also
be audio, tactile, olfactory, kinesthetic (body awareness),
emotional, or other types of input.
n Async: A person with psi abilities.
n AU: Astronomical Unit. The distance between the Earth
and the Sun, equal to 8.3 light minutes, or about 150
million kilometers.
n Autonomists: The alliance of anarchists, Barsoomians,
Extropians, scum, and Titanians.
n Barsoomian: A rural Martian, typically resentful of
hypercorp control.
n Basilisk Hack: An image or other sensory input that
affects the brain’s visual cortex and pattern recognition
abilities in such a way as to cause a glitch and possibly
exploit it and rewrite neural code.
n Beehive: A microgravity habitat made from a tunneledout
asteroid or moon.
n BF: Before the Fall (used for reference dating).
n Bioconservative: An anti-technology movement that argues
for strict regulation of nanofabrication, AI, uploading, forking,
cognitive enhancements, and other disruptive technologies.
n Biomorph: A biological body, whether a flat, splicer,
genetically engineered transhuman, or pod.
n Body Bank: A service for leasing, selling, acquiring, or
storing a morph. AKA dollhouse, morgue.
n Bots: Robots. AI-piloted synthetic shells.
n Bracewell Probe: A type of autonomous monitoring deepspace
probe meant to make contact with alien civilizations.
n Brinkers: Exiles who live on the fringes of the system, as
well as other isolated and well-hidden nooks and crannies.
Also called isolates, fringers, drifters.
n Case: A cheap, common, mass-produced synthetic shell.
n Chimeric: Transgenic, containing genetic traits from
other species.
n Circumjovian: Orbiting Jupiter.
n Circumlunar: Orbiting the Moon.
n Circumsolar: Orbiting the Sun.
n Cislunar: Between the Earth and the Moon.
n Clade: A species or group of organisms with common
features. Used to refer to transhuman subspecies and
morph types.
n Cole Bubble: A habitat made from a hollowed-out asteroid
or moon, spun for gravity.
n Cornucopia Machine: A general-purpose nanofabricator.
n Cortical Stack: An implanted memory cell used for ego
backup. Located where the spine meets the skull; can be
cut out.
n Cyberbrain: An artificial brain, housing an ego run in a
software brain-state. Used in both synthmorphs and pods.
n Darkcast: Illegal and black market farcasting and egocasting
services.
n Domain Rules: The rules that govern the reality of a
virtual reality simulspace.
n Drone: A robot controlled through teleoperation (rather
than directly via onboard AI).
n Ecto: Personal mesh devices that are flexible, stretchable,
self-cleaning, translucent, and solar-powered. From ectolink
(external link).
n Ego: The part of you that switches from body to body.
AKA ghost, soul, essence, spirit, persona.
n Egocasting: Term for sending egos via farcasting.
n Entoptics: Augmented-reality images that you “see” in
your head. (“Entoptic” means “within the eye.”)
n ETI: Extraterrestial Intelligence. The term Firewall uses
to refer to the god-like post-singularity alien intelligence
theorized to be responsible for the Exsurgent virus.
n Exalts: Genetically enhanced humans (between genefixed
and transhumans). AKA genefreaks, ascended, elevated.
n Exoplanet: A planet in another solar system.
n Exsurgent: Someone infected by the Exsurgent virus.
n Exsurgent Virus: The multi-vector virus created by
an unknown ETI and seeded throughout the galaxy in
Bracewell probes. The Exsurgent virus is self-morphing and
can infect both computer systems and biological creatures.
n Extrasolar: Outside the solar system.
n Factors: The alien ambassadorial race that deals with
transhumanity. Also called Brokers.
n The Fall: The apocalypse; the singularity and wars that
nearly brought about the downfall of transhumanity.
n Farcasting: Intrasolar communication utilizing classical
communication technologies (radio, laser, etc.) and
quantum teleportation.
n Farhauler: Long-distance space shipper.
n Firewall: The secret cross-faction conspiracy that works
to protect transhumanity from “existential threats” (risks
to transhumanity’s continued existence).
n Flatlander: Someone born or used to living on a planet
or moon with gravity.
n Flats: Baseline humans (not genetically modified). Also
called norms.
n Flexbot: A shape-changing synthmorph capable of
joining together with other flexbots in a modular fashion
to create larger shapes.
n Forking: Copying an ego. Not all forks are full copies.
AKA backups.
n Forknapping: Kidnapping a backup or fork.
n FTL: Faster-Than-Light.
n Fury: A transhuman combat morph.
n Gatecrashers: Explorers who take their chances using a
Pandora gate to go somewhere previously unexplored.
n Genehacker: Someone who manipulates genetic code to
create genetic modifications or even new life.
n Ghost: A transhuman combat morph optimized for
stealth and infiltration.
n Ghost-riding: The act of carrying an infomorph in a
special implant module inside your head.
n Greeks: Trojan asteroids or moons that share the same
orbit as a larger planet or moon, but are 60 degrees
ahead in the orbit at the L4 Lagrange point. The term
Greeks normally refers to the asteroids orbiting around
Jupiter’s L4 point. See also “Trojans.”
n Habtech: A habitat technician.
n Hibernoid: A transhuman modified for hibernation, for
extensive travel in space.
n Iceteroid: An asteroid made from mostly ice rather than
rock or metals.
n Iktomi: The name given to the mysterious alien race
whose relics have been found beyond the Pandora gates.
n Indentures: Indentured servants who have contracted
their labor to a hypercorp or other authority, usually in
exchange for a morph.
n Infolife: Artificial general intelligences and seed AIs.
n Infomorph: A digitized ego; a virtual body. Also known
as datamorphs, uploads, backups.
n Infugee: “Infomorph refugee,” or someone who left
everything behind on Earth during the Fall—even their
own body.
n Isolates: Those who live in isolated communities far
outside the system (in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud).
AKA outsters, fringers.
n Jamming: The act of “becoming” a teleoperated drone
thanks to XP technology. Also sometimes applied to
accesing the real-time XP feed from lifeloggers and others.
n Kuiper Belt: A region of space extending from Neptune’s
orbit out to about 55 AU, lightly populated with asteroids,
comets, and dwarf planets.
n Lagrange Point: One of five areas in respect to a
small planetary body orbiting a larger one in which the
gravitational forces of those two bodies are neutralized.
Lagrange points are considered stable and ideal locations
for habitats.
n Lifelog: A recording of one’s entire life experience, made
possible due to near-unlimited computer memory.
n Lost Generation: In an effort to repopulate post-Fall, a
generation of children were reared using forced-growth
methods. The results were disastrous: many died or went
insane, and the rest were stigmatized.
n Main Belt: The main asteroid belt, a torus ring orbiting
between Mars and Jupiter.
n Meme: A viral idea. A unit of information transmitted
socially that self-replicates and mutates in a manner
analagous to genes.
n Mentons: Transhumans optimized for mental and cognitive
ability.
n Mercurials: The non-human sapient elements of the
transhuman “family,” including AGIs and uplifted animals.
n Mesh: The omnipresent wireless mesh data network.
Also used as a verb (to mesh) and adjective (meshed
or unmeshed).
n Mesh ID: The unique signature attached to one’s mesh
activity.
n Microgravity: Zero-g or near weightless environments.
n Mist: The clouds of AR data that sometimes fog up your
perception/displays.
n Morph: A physical body. AKA suit, jacket, sleeve, shell, form.
n Muse: Personal AI helper programs.
n Nanobot: A nano-scale machine.
n Nano-Ecology: Pro-tech ecological movement.
n Nanoswarm: A mass of tiny nanobots unleashed into
an environment.
n Neo-Avians: Uplifted ravens and gray parrots.
n Neogenesis: The creation of new life forms via genetic
manipulation and biotechnology.
n Neo-Hominids: Uplifted chimpanzees, gorillas, and
orangutans.
n Neotenics: Transhumans modified to retain a child-like
form.
n Novacrab: A pod created from genetically engineered
spider crab stock.
n Olympian: A transhuman biomorph modified for athleticism
and endurance.
n O’Neill Cylinder: A soda-can shaped habitat, spun for
gravity.
n Oort Cloud: The spherical “cloud” of comets that surrounds
the solar system out to about one light-year from
the sun.
n PAN: Personal Area Network. The network created when
you slave all of your minor personal electronics to your
ecto or mesh inserts.
n Pandora Gates: The wormhole gateways discovered
after the disappearance of the TITANs.
n Pods: Mixed biological-synthetic morphs. Pod clones
are force-grown and feature cyberbrains. Also known as
biobots, skinjobs, replicants. From “pod people.”
n Posthuman: A human or transhuman individual or
species that has been genetically or cognitively modified
so extensively as to no longer be human (a step beyond
transhuman). AKA parahuman.
n Prometheans: A group of transhuman-friendly seed AIs
that were created by the Lifeboat Project (precursors to
the argonauts) years before the TITANs became selfaware
and that (mostly) avoided Exsurgent infection. The
Prometheans secretly back Firewall and work to defeat
existential threats.
n Proxies: Members of the Firewall internal structure.
n Psi: Parapsychological powers acquired due to infection
by the Watts-MacLeod strain of Exsurgent virus.
n Reaper: A warbot synthmorph.
n Reclaimers: A transhuman faction that seeks to lift the
interdiction and reclaim Earth.
n Redneck: A rural Martian. See Barsoomian. AKA Reds.
n Re-instantiated: Refugees from Earth who escaped
only as bodiless infomorphs, but who have since
been resleeved.
n Resleeving: Changing bodies or downloading into a
new one. Also called remorphing, reincarnation, shifting,
rebirthing.
n Rusters: Biomorphs optimized for life on Mars.
n Scorchers: Hostile programs that can damage or affect
cyberbrains.
n Scum: The nomadic faction of space punks/gypsies
that travel from station to station in heavily modified
barges or swarms of ships. Notorious for being a
roving black market.
n Seed AI: An AGI that is capable of recursive self-improvement,
allowing it to reach god-like levels of intelligence.
n Sentinels: Agents of Firewall.
n Shell: A synthetic physical morph. AKA synthmorph.
n Simulmorph: The avatar you use in VR simulspace
programs.
n Simulspace: Full-immersion virtual reality environments.
n Singularity: A point of rapid, exponential, and recursive
technological progress, beyond which the future becomes
impossible to predict. Often used to refer to the ascension
of seed AI to god-like levels of intelligence.
n Singularity Seeker: People who pursue relics and
evidence of the TITANs or other possible avenues to
super-intelligence, either to learn more about it or to
become part of a super-intelligence themselves.
n Skin: A biological physical morph. AKA meat, flesh.
n Skinning: Changing your perceived environment via
augmented reality programming.
n Sleight: A psi power.
n Slitheroid: A snake-like robotic synthmorph.
n Smart Animals: Partially uplifted animal species (including
dogs, cats, and rats). Some other large smart animals
(elephants) are nearly extinct.
n Spime: Meshed, self-aware, location-aware devices.
n Splicers: Humans that are genetically modified to eliminate
genetic diseases and some other traits. Also known
as genefixed, cleangenes, tweaks.
n Swarmanoid: A synthetic morph composed from a
swarm of tiny insect-sized robots.
n Sylphs: Transhuman biomorphs with exotic good looks.
n Synthmorph: Synthetic morphs. Robotic shells possessed
by transhuman egos.
n Synths: A specific type of synthmorph. Synths are standard
androids/gynoids; robots that are designed to look
humanoid, though they are usually noticeably not human.
n Teleoperation: Remote control.
n Titanian: Someone from Titan, a moon of Saturn.
n TITANs: The human-created, recursively improving, military
seed AIs that underwent a hard-takeoff singularity
and prompted the Fall. Original military designation was
TITAN: Total Information Tactical Awareness Network.
n Torus: A donut-shaped habitat, spun for gravity.
n Transgenic: Containing genetic traits from other species.
n Transhuman: An extensively modified human.
n Trojans: Asteroids or moons that share the same orbit
as a larger planet or moon, but follow about 60 degrees
ahead or behind at the L4 and L5 Lagrange points. The
term Trojans normally refers to the asteroids orbiting at
Jupiter’s Lagrange points, but Mars, Saturn, Neptune, and
other bodies also have Trojans. See also “Greeks.”
n Uplifting: Genetically transforming an animal species to
sapience.
n Vacworker: Space laborer.
n Vapor: A failed mind emulation or crippled fork/infomorph
(from vaporware).
n VPNs: Virtual Private Networks. Networks that operate
within the mesh, usually encrypted for privacy/security.
n VR: Virtual Reality. Imposing an artificially constructed
hyper-real reality over one’s physical senses.
n X-Caster: Someone who transmits/sells XP recordings of
their experiences.
n Xenomorph: Alien life form.
n Xer: As in “X-er”—someone addicted or obsessed with
XP. Sometime also used to refer to people making XP.
n XP: Experience Playback. Experiencing someone else’s
sensory input (in real-time or recorded). Also called
experia, sim, simsense, playback.
n X-Risk: Existential Risk. Something that threatens the
very existence of transhumanity.
n Zeroes: People without wireless mesh access. Common
with some indentures.
